♪ [theme]
>> Asha: The "People versus
Air Miles" is
coming right at you.
It's been a wild ride
for Air Miles collectors.
We brought these five together a
few months ago to try to use up
thousands of their Dream Miles
before they were set to expire.
♪ ♪
Mike, James, Ivan, Joanne,
and Razvan, were loyal,
long-time collectors.
But when it came to redeeming
their miles, like million of
other Canadians, our five were
hitting the wall.
>> I was running
into major roadblocks.
>> Asha: So we created
a test centre.
>> Has anybody gotten in yet?
I just keep getting the circle
going around and around.
>> Asha: From slow searches.
>> They have the slowest
web site that I
have ever experienced.
>> Asha: To high prices,
to no choices.
Our testers couldn't score
anything they wanted for their
dream miles.
Joanne Moscone really wanted
travel certificates but they
took those rewards away from
collectors like her.
>> I went to
order my certificates,
they're not there.
Can't find them anywhere.
>> Asha: And no luck for people
looking to take off.
Michael Judd had already spent
six months looking for a flight
to New Zealand to visit family.
>> It'll crash.
It'll time out.
Then other times you'll get just
a little bit further
and a nice big window pop
up saying, "Sorry, but we are
experiencing technical
difficulties."
>> Asha: James Fulcher was
turned off by extra fees.
>> The taxes and fees through
Air Miles was $618.
This clearly is not working.
[phone rings]
>> Asha: They tried calling
the customer service
centre for help.
>> [from phone]: We are not able
to take any
more calls today as current
expected wait time exceeds
our operating hours
this evening.
>> Asha: But got nowhere.
>> They just hung up me.
>> They just hung up.
>> Wow.
>> I feel like
I can't do anything.
>> Asha: They called back
on a VIP line and got through.
>> I 'm getting really
frustrated.
I'm getting nowhere here.
>> [from phone]: Remember,
the program can make changes,
right, with or without notice.
>> That's really disappointing.
♪ ♪
>> Asha: Turns out Air Miles
may not want us
to redeem all our miles.
We dug up a document that says
their goal is for us to redeem
about 72 per cent of our miles.
Execs say, "We actively control
the program via
the options that
you can redeem for."
>> I 'm done.
I've been loyal since 1993,
and this past year
I have had nothing
but frustration.
>> You're cutting up your card?
>> Done.
Moving on.
Different reward program.
>> What are you gonna do?
>> I 'm going to fight it as
as long as I can.
And not just for myself,
for others.
♪ ♪
>> Asha: True to his word,
Michael took his fight to
Ontario politicians who were
looking at outlawing the expiry
of loyalty points.
>> Today we are dealing with
Bill 47 with respect
to reward points.
>> Air Miles execs showed up at
the legislature.
>> And as I understand it there
are several people
who wish to speak.
>> Asha: It was
Michael's moment.
>> Really and honestly feels
like I'm being blocked,
with purpose and intent.
The level of service I would say
is less than 1 per cent of
what it was in the '90s.
It is right now, from my
perspective, appalling.
>> Mr. Judd, we are working to
resolve your issue.
However, let me please say this
to the committee.
Mr. Judd's experience
is not the norm.
♪ ♪
>> Asha: We tried to get
answers for Canadians.
You don't want
all your collectors
to redeem their miles.
We found it
in transcribed notes.
>> What we want is our
collectors to stay actively
engaged in our program to both
earn and redeem.
>> Asha: Two days later,
Air Miles caved
to public pressure.
They cancelled the expiry
policy and told their
shareholders that going forward
LoyaltyOne will adjust the value
proposition to collectors.
Translation, they could devalue
your miles to avoid their lost
profits in the future.
[multiple text notifications]
Canadians were not happy.
This month Air Miles apologized
to collectors, promising to
improve their programs but they
admit they have already hiked
the miles required
for vacation packages.
And our viewers say
those aren't the only
rewards costing more.
>> Okay, so we are in our rental
car, that we had to pay for,
because Air Miles kept changing
the amount of points we needed
to the point where
we couldn't get it
on Air Miles anymore so we've
had to pay for this
out of our own pockets.
>> Asha: Edmonton's Kelly Keane
wanted to redeem dream miles
for a car rental
in Palm Springs
in late January.
>> This is why we went
to California,
is to get away from the snow.
[shovel grinds against pavement]
>> Asha: But the price jumped
from 1360 Dream Miles
in the fall,
to 1740 miles.
That's a 28 per cent hike.
>> It's just like they were
devaluing the points that
we still had left.
>> Asha: We checked.
Couldn't find a reason
for the big increase,
especially because he wanted
a car during the low season.
>> I'm sure I'm not the only
person that's
experienced these things.
>> Asha: No, he's not.
Another collector wrote about
a doubling of miles for a car
in Las Vegas.
And a Montréaler documented a
skyrocketing of miles over the
last two years
for the same car,
in the same city, in Florida.
So we asked Air Miles
for an explanation.
And they say they haven't made
price changes to hotels, flights
or car rentals and blame any
increase on foreign exchange.
Market rates in general and
availability at time of booking
Which they say are beyond the
control of Air Miles.
>> I really don't
buy their argument.
The changes that
they've outlined,
I don't believe have happened.
The circumstances that they've
outlined I don't
think are realistic.
>> Asha: As for our testifying
tester Michael, some good news.
>> What I have here is my
itinerary, finally after ten
months for my
flights to New Zealand.
>> Asha: But that ticket took
a whole lot out of him.
>> Probably in excess of 300
hours, a lot of grief.
>> Asha: And guess what,
it's double the Dream Miles
from the advertised,
"Starting from 14,000,"
to more than 30,000.
>> It's impossible to work out
because none of it makes sense.
>> Asha: Michael fought to
have the difference credited
back to him.
And won.
But he is pretty much done with
the program.
>> I don't understand what they
are thinking.
Senior management at Air Miles
and LoyaltyOne really has to
have a good hard think on what
they're doing.